# PhingService

## Introduction
PhingService is module for Zend Framework 2 that will enable you to run the
bundled [phing](http://www.phing.info/ "Phing") binaries from within ZF2 projects.

## Requirements
  * Zend Framework 2 (https://github.com/zendframework/zf2)
  * The ability to run php from the commandline [exec](php.net/manual/en/function.exec.php)

## Installation
### Easy peasy
The easiest way to get a working copy of this project is to do a recursive clone:

    cd /to/your/project/directory
    git clone --recursive git://github.com/basz/zf2-module-phing-service.git vendor/PhingService
	# Optionally, point the local repository to a specific release.
    cd /to/your/project/directory/vendor/PhingService
    git checkout v1.0.0

### Easy peasy v2
Or you can add this as a submodule to your .git repository

    cd /to/your/project/directory
    git submodule add git://github.com/basz/zf2-module-phing-service.git  vendor/PhingService
	# Optionally, point the local repository to a specific release.
    cd /to/your/project/directory/vendor/PhingService
    git checkout v1.0.0

### Painless Gui Folks
Finally you can download a released version from
[Github](https://github.com/basz/zf2-module-phing-service/tags "Github") and drop it into
your vendor directory. _Note that you also need to install phing then by hand and possibly
change the configuration so PhingService can find the installation path_.

## Configuration

  * Open `.../configs/application.config.php` and add 'PhingService'
    to the 'modules' parameter to register the module within your application.
  * Optionally copy `.../vendor/PhingService/config/module.phingservice.config.php.dist` to
     `.../config/autoload/module.phingservice.config.php` to override some defaults.

## How to use PhingService
There is only one command to use which is `$Service->build($target, $phingOptions);`. The
build method returns an associative array that contains the return status of the phing
executable, the command has been issued and any output generated by phing (Both stdout and
stderr are captured).

### Controller example
You can create an instance of the Service manually, however it is recommended to retrieve an
configured instance from the Dependancy Injection Locator. The Locator is available in
every controller so retrieval is trivial.

    public function indexAction() {
        $options = array('buildFile' => __DIR__ . '/../../../data/build-example.xml');

        $buildResult = $this->locator->get('phing-service')->build('show-defaults dist', $options);

        if ($buildResult['returnStatus'] > 0) {
      	    // problem
            echo $buildResult['command'];
            echo $buildResult['output'];
        } else {
            // yeah
            echo $buildResult['output'];
        }

        $view = new ViewModel($buildResult);
        $view->setTemplate('phingservice/index');

        return $view;
    }

To get a quick taste you can enable the defined route in module.conf.php and point your 
browser at `http://localhost/phingservice` to get an working example.

## Licence
The MIT License (MIT)
Copyright (c) 2012 bushbaby multimedia

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this
software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software
without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge,
publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons
to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or
substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

_Phing has it's own licence [Phing licence](http://www.phing.info/trac/wiki/Users/License/ "Phing licence")_